
Application : Position and Presence

This is characterized by every participant 
sending his position on every cycle.
The messages are small consisting of longitude an latitude 
which can be effectively encoded in 32 bits each
giving a resolution of ~1 cm.
The encoding can be done in a number of ways 
such as millionth of decimal degrees encoding, 
  e.g. Nashville -86,680,000 36,120,000 = 36.12 degrees North & 86.68 degrees West
Given a signed 32bit encoding ranges from +/- 2,147,483,647 these
values are well within range.
In the application the slot will contain values of this size.

This application requires no additional behaviors 
be added to TDMA.
In basic TDMA a node owns a time slice which is divided
into slack/send/slack regions.

Application : Video

This is characterized by some particular participant
requesting every other participants slice.
Essentially, when a node reliquishes its slice it is
expressing interest and "casting its vote" for the stream.
As the number of slices increase the number of video
bits can be increased.  If adjacent slices are obtained
the slack between slices can be used to send data.
Once the stream is complete the slices are returned 
to their owners.

This application requires dynamic acquisition of slices. 
Regarding collision detection some radios are capable
of reading what they write and thus can detect collisions.
Many of the less expensive radios do not support this.
Nevertheless, collision detection is still possible by the receiver.
Consider an owner of a time slice where that slice is
divided into slack/solicit/slack/send/slack regions.
The owner first listens over the solicit region for
a solicitation for use of some of the owner's slice.
The owner can reliquish some of its slices to the solicitor
this is done during its send region (possibly in a subsequent
round).  It is possible that their may be a collision during
the solicitation read, which can be detected by the receiver.

Application : Messaging

This application is characterized by 


